New Releases: Kiln v2 Testnet, EIP-3860, Extended VM Genesis (Code/Storage) (#1774)
ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo: packages/vm/CHANGELOG.md

(modification: no type change headlines) and this project adheres to
[Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## 5.8 - 2022-03-11

### Merge Kiln v2 Testnet Support

> This release fully supports the Merge [Kiln](https://kiln.themerge.dev/) testnet `v2` complying to the latest Merge [specs](https://hackmd.io/@n0ble/kiln-spec). The release is part of an [@ethereumjs/client](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/tree/master/packages/client) `v0.4` release which can be used to sync with the testnet, combining with a suited consensus client (e.g. the Lodestar client). See [Kiln](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/tree/master/packages/client/kiln) instructions to get things going! 🚀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release fully supports the Merge [Kiln](https://kiln.themerge.dev/) testnet `v2` complying with the latest Merge [specs](https://hackmd.io/@n0ble/kiln-spec). The release is part of an [@ethereumjs/client](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/tree/master/packages/client) `v0.4` release which can be used to sync with the testnet, combining with a suited consensus client (e.g. the Lodestar client). See [Kiln](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/tree/master/packages/client/kiln) instructions to get things going! 🚀
```

```typescript
import VM from '@ethereumjs/vm'
import Common, { Chain, Hardfork } from '@ethereumjs/common'

const common = new Common({ chain: Chain.Mainnet, hardfork: Hardfork.Merge })
const vm = new VM({ common })
vm._common.isActivatedEIP(4399) // true
```

- [EIP-4399](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4399) Support: Supplant DIFFICULTY opcode with PREVRANDAO, PR [#1565](https://
github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1565)

### EIP-3860 Support: Limit and Meter Initcode

Support for [EIP-3860](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3860) has been added to the VM. This EIP limits the maximum size of initcode to 49152 and apply extra gas cost of 2 for every 32-byte chunk of initcode.

Note that this EIP is not part of a specific hardfork yet and is considered `EXPERIMENTAL` (implementation can change along bugfix releases).

For now the EIP has to be activated manually which can be done by using a respective `Common` instance:

```typescript
const common = new Common({ chain: Chain.Mainnet, hardfork: Hardfork.London, eips: [ 3860 ] })
```

### L2 Support: Genesis State with Code and Storage

> It is now possible within the VM to initialize with an extended genesis state not only containing account balances but also code and storage, see PR [#1757](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1757). This is part of our emerging L2 support strategy to allow for a VM instantiation which closer ressembles a specific L2 (or generally: custom chain) setup. Many L2 chains come with specific system contracts pre-initialized on genesis - see e.g. [Optimism](https://community.optimism.io/docs/protocol/protocol-2.0/#system-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is now possible within the VM to initialize with an extended genesis state not only containing account balances but also code and storage, see PR [#1757](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1757). This is part of our emerging L2 support strategy to allow for a VM instantiation that closer resembles a specific L2 (or generally: custom chain) setup. Many L2 chains come with specific system contracts pre-initialized on genesis - see e.g. [Optimism](https://community.optimism.io/docs/protocol/protocol-2.0/#system-overview).
```
